Welcome back everyone to this lecture on multi class activation functions so previously we just saw
that all the activation functions in the previous lecture.
They make sense for something of a single output.
Either you trying to predict a continuous label or you try to predict something with a binary classification
problem.
That means you either want a zero or 1 or something between 0 and 1 and assign a probability.
But what do we do if we actually have a multi class situation in a multi class situation.
The output layer is actually going to have multiple neurons so keep in mind there's two main types of
multi class situations.
There's the not exclusive class situation and not exclusive.
Basically means that a single data point can actually have multiple classes or categories assigned to
it a mutually exclusive class situation which typically we are learning about machine learning is the
more common type is where you can only have one class per data point so let's go ahead and look at the
activation functions for these two use cases.
So first off for things like non-exclusive classes again that's where a data point can have multiple
classes or categories assigned to it.
So for example let's imagine your data happens to be a photo a photo can have multiple texts.
It could be tagged Beach family vacation etc. So can have multiple classes or categories then assigned
to a single photo for a mutually exclusive class.
That data point can only have one class or category assigned to it.
So for example photos can be Kateri categorized as being in grayscale black and white or full color.
A photo can't really be both at the same time it's either in grayscale black and white or full color.
You can't assign both of those classes to a single data point that wouldn't make sense.
So that's mutually exclusive so we want to do is first figure out how do we actually organize data that
contains multiple classes.
And the easiest way to organize multiple classes is to simply have one output note per class so previously
if we look back at that neural network that we are drawing out and illustrating we thought of that last
output layer as a single node that single node can maybe output a continuous regression value or binary
classification so or 1 or maybe some value between 0 or 1 however let's now expand this outer layer
to work for the case of multi classification.
So what this ends up looking like is we have our input layer at the very beginning.
Then we have some hidden layers and then we have a final output layer where the final output layer is
essentially a neuron per class.
So there is one you're on for class one neuron for class two all the way till and classes so this means
we need to organize categories for this output layer.
We're not gonna be able to feed a neural network category it's like a string red blue or green.
Recall that the neural network is gonna take an x values and those should be numbers.
Then it can apply weights to them and add biases.
You can't really multiply the words red blue or green and often real data points when we have classes.
They're going to be things like string codes sought to figure out how do we actually transform our data
correctly to be able to use neural networks for multi class situations.
So what we can do is we can instead use something known as one hot encoding.
You may also heard this called dummy variables.
So let's take a look at what this looks like for mutually exclusive classes sort of for mutually exclusive
classes you may have something that looks like this you have data points and then a class that belongs
to each data point.
Here we can see data point one as red then two is Green Three is blue all the way until data point n
is red.
Now we're not gonna be able to feed the string color codes red green and blue into our neural network.
So how do we actually organize this especially considering that last output layer.
Well we can do is actually just use binary classification for each class and what we do is when the
building out a matrix so we can see here we see data point one is one for red and then zero for the
rest of those classes.
Then data point to is zero for red one on green and zero for blue.
And you can see how we can essentially expand this idea.
So again this is called One high encoding and other people like call this creating dummy variables now
for not exclusive classes going to be slightly different.
Recall that non-exclusive classes means each data point can actually have multiple classes assigned
to it such as a photo having multiple tags or categories assigned to it.
So we can see here data point one has classes and be assigned to a data point to as a data point three
has CMB etc..
So we just actually performed the same idea except now data points can have a value of one for multiple
categories.
So same idea here.
You're essentially where that data point matches up with a class or category you assign a value of one
every year or else you assign a value of zero essentially transforming or encoding that string information
as one hot essentially showing that one means on and 0 is off.
So now that we have data correctly organized and we're going to be organized and data in one hot including
our data later on we're actually coding only you these Choose the correct classification activation
function that the last output layer should have so if you're dealing with non exclusive then you can
just use the sigmoid function because each neuron will output a value between 0 and 1 indicating the
probability of having that class assigned to it.
So what this looks like is we essentially we can have a neuron for each class.
Again this is not exclusive.
So data points can have multiple classes assigned to them.
Then you just end up putting a sigmoid function recall a sigmoid function also known as the logistic
function.
It can go have values 1 0 and 1 and then all the outputs for those neurons end up lighting up somewhere
between 0 and 1.
And what you end up doing is you just say OK in this particular case this data point has an 80 percent
likelihood of belong in the class 1 as well as having a 20 percent likelihood of having class 2 assigned
to it.
And then maybe a 30 percent likelihood of having class end.
So we would probably just say All right go ahead and assign Class 1 to this data point.
However keep in mind that when we're dealing with not exclusive classes you can see here that let's
say ran another data point and I happen to say.
Class 1 is after going through sigmoid function zero point eight class two zero point six for the non-exclusive
case.
If my cutoff point is at zero point five then I would actually assign here to classes or two categories.
This data point I would say both class one in class two are gonna be assigned to this data point since
I'm dealing with non exclusive classes.
Again the classes on inclusive so data points cannot be assigned multiple categories or multiple classes.
So in this case since class wanted to kind of breach that halfway cross at zero point five we assign
both one and two to this particular data point.
So as I just mentioned for non-exclusive classes where we're using that sigmoid function always keep
in mind that that allows each neuron to output independently of the other classes so it allows for a
single data point fed into the function to have multiple classes assigned to it.
Now what do we do when each data point can actually only have one single class assigned to it.
Well for this there's a really clever soft Max activation function.
So the soft max function looks something like this.
And essentially what you end up doing is recall here that we have Z as the actual inputs into the last
output layer and we're gonna be able to do is with this particular soft max function.
Notice that it actually has IE is equal to 1 then 2 all the way to K and K here stands for the number
of categories.
And essentially what this does is the SFX function calculates the probabilities distribution of the
events over k different events and in this case gauges the different classes we have.
So this functional calculate the probabilities of each target class over all possible target classes
so the range will be 0 to 1.
And what's really important here is when you're using the soft Max activation function the sum of all
the probabilities will be equal to 1.
So that means in the output layer when you're passing in through the soft max function the sum of all
the probabilities in the outlier is equal to 1.
So we end up doing is as the model returns the probabilities of each class.
The target class is chosen by the neuron that has the highest probability so what does this actually
look like.
Well the main thing to keep mind is again we're dealing with mutually exclusive classes.
So for that sort of problem after you apply the soft Max you get an output that looks something like
this.
You have some index position that matches up with those neurons in the output layer and then soft Max
provides probabilities for each class so we can see here for this particular data point we had zero
point one for red zero point six for green and zero point three for blue.
You'll notice that the sum of all those probabilities is equal to 1 which makes sense because the sum
over an entire probability space should be equal to 1.
Because that basically answers a question that there is a 100 percent chance this data point belongs
to one of these classes.
But if we read into this further this basically says there is a 10 percent chance it belongs to red
a 60 percent chance it belongs to green and a 30 percent chance it belongs to blue.
So for this particular case we would choose green as our classification for this mutually exclusive
class and say that this network believes that this particular data point is green and it gives it a
60 percent chance of being green.
And as I noted the probabilities for each class all sum up to 1 which is the highest probability as
our assignment so for a review of the theory we've gone over so far we understand the basic precept
trans how they can expand to a neural network model which stand weights and biases and how those get
passed in with an activation function.
And we also learn about particular activation functions for multi class situations.
However we haven't really discussed how the network actually learns how do we update these weights and
biases in order to improve our performance.
Initially they all start off just random weights and ran the biased values.
Eventually we're gonna figure out how this network is actually going to learn to choose correct weights
and for that we did first learn about cost functions and then we can learn about things like gradient
descent and back propagation.
So let's go ahead and go over cost functions in the next lecture.
I'll see you there.